PROJECT START (2025-06-06 20:23:37):

Well, here we go again. I'm not embarrassed to admit that the JavaScript pages so far have given me quiiiiite some trouble. However, the feeling when something finally clicks - and then, miraculously, somehow works - has been the most satisfying feeling so far. I'm planning on really, really taking my time with this project to try and understand what each and every line of code is really doing. I know I'm going to be facing some real failures before I hit the successes, but I feel alright with that. If I can really get this rock paper scissors project to work, I'm going to be really proud of myself. :)

UPDATE (2025-06-06 20:47:36):

I've now completed the HTML boilerplate page, connected it via script src to the external JavaScript page, and tested its functionality via a placeholder "hello world" console.log. I checked it through the Live Server extension and confirmed the console.log came through as expected, so everything looks good to go. I plan over the next few days (life permitting) to work according to the TOP guidance: first focus is the computer response, then the human response, then tracking the scores, then having the responses loop for one round, then, finally, looping through a full game of 5 rounds total. If, in my next session, I can get something like the computer response working, even if not fully complete, I'll be happy with that. If I find myself struggling, I'll carry on through the Codecademy / freeCodeCamp JavaScript courses I've been checking out, to keep exposing myself to opportunities to practise the code and commit it to memory. I've barely achieved anything so far, but I'm still feeling good.

PROJECT END (2025-06-08 22:53:59):

I literally cannot believe I'm uploading a "project end" update already. I wasn't able to touch anything yesterday due to life, but today was able to spend a real chunk of time working on the code. I hit a number of pitfalls: I wasn't able to get the scores to tabulatre correctly, I wasn't able to get the rounds to execute correctly for what felt like ages, I had horrible trouble once I realised that ties were being counted as valid rounds (which was throwing the final scores out), and I broke my code a number of times trying to fix alerts firing at the wrong time and random alerts popping up twice. Thankfully, with a hell of a lot of Googling and with ChatGPT being used only for general examples with specific requests for no solutions or answers, I was somehow manage to get a workable project completed today. I have to record here, for my own sanity as well as that of anyone who might ever actually see this: I know that the code is extremely wordy, with tens and tens of redunant lines that are are best repeating themselves and at worst completely and utterly unrequired. However, I imposed on myself the rather limiting restriction of only wanting to use what TOP had explicitly taught me about at this time, without direct reference to the numerous long, hard-to-retain documentation and reference sites. Due to this, I avoided loops (as TOP hasn't officially covered them yet and I don't feel that confident with them as it is) as well as syntax like 'while', 'do', and others (which, if TOP has covered, my puny brain has no recollection of at all). I did this with a view of being able to look back on this in a (hopefully short) while and, with new knowledge/experience, be able to pick back through it and improve it. Overall, though, I feel immensely proud of myself for getting this far. When I first read through the TOP page on this project, I really did question my ability to even start. I had no idea (barring the HTML boilerplate, lol) how to begin, and even though it really was very difficult, I cannot overstate how happy I am to have been able to work through the bugs and produce something that actually works how I imagined it would. I know it's ugly, but that's me. Holy shit, I did it. Onward! :)